if you want to become a blockchain
developer you're in the right place
today I'm sharing a complete blockchain
road map I'll walk you through the
essential skills you need the tools I
personally recommend and how much time
you should spend on each assuming you
dedicate 3 to 5 hours of studying every
day this road map should take you about
8 to 10 months to complete let's Jump
Right
[Music]
In first I want to give a quick shout
out to our newest members Edgars
Christian Bluff gien shales Joe thank
you so much for joining this Channel and
supporting me you're awesome by the way
if you're new here welcome this channel
is all about helping you build a strong
foundation in coding and land your dream
Tech job I create practical no fluff
tutorials road maps and career advice to
help you succeed if that sounds good hit
subscribe and check out the other videos
on this channel the first step to
learning blockchain development is to
pick up a programming language the two
most popular languages for blockchain
development are Python and JavaScript
python is the easiest to learn and is
widely used in blockchain scripting
JavaScript is common for frontend
development and web 3 Frameworks which
we'll talk about later in this video if
you're starting out stick to one
language preferably python so you don't
get confused after learning python
picking up JavaScript will be much
faster if you study and code 3 to 5
hours a day you can learn the basics of
either language in about 2 months now to
help you on this journey I've created a
free supplementary PDF that breaks down
the specific Concepts you need to learn
for each skill it's a great resource to
review your progress find gaps in your
knowledge and prepare for interviews you
can find the link in the description Box
by the way I have a bunch of tutorials
on this channel and complete courses on
my website if you're looking for
structured learning again links are in
the description box the next thing you
need to learn is a version control
system like git git is not a programming
language it's a tool we use to track
changes to our code and collaborate with
others git and GitHub which is a
platform that hosts git repositories are
essential for every developer git has a
ton of features but you don't need to
know them all for everyday use think of
it like the 8020 rule 80% of the time
you use 20% of gits features 1 to 2
weeks of practice is enough to get up
and running again I have a bunch of
tutorials on this channel and complete
courses on my website if you prefer
structured learning the next step is
studying data structures and algorithms
this is one of the topics taught to
computer science students that a lot of
self-taught developers Skip and is often
asked in job interviews it's
particularly important for blockchain
development because in blockchain
development every operation can have a
cost so you have to learn how to process
and store data efficiently and this is
where data structures come into the play
you have to use the right data structure
for the right problem so make sure to
study the classic data structures like
arrays link lists Stacks cues and so on
spend about a month or two on this and
you'll be in great shape once you have a
good grasp of blockchain fundamentals
you're ready to learn about smart
contracts these are programs that run on
a blockchain like little robots that
follow specific rules and can't be
changed once their life now solidity is
the most popular language for writing
smart contracts on ethereum don't let
the name scare you it's similar to other
coding languages once you get the hang
of it you can practice using remix IDE
which is a web-based development
environment for ethereum smart contracts
it's great for beginners because you can
start coding and testing your smart
contracts immediately without extensive
local setup once you get comfortable
writing simple contracts with remix IDE
then I would recommend learning hard hat
for more professional and Enterprise
level workflows it's a popular local
development environment for ethereum
smart contracts it gives you a framework
and a set of tools to build test deploy
and debug smart contracts more
effectively spend about a month or two
building small projects like a basic
token or nft now once you build and
deploy a smart contract to a blockchain
network then you need to allow users to
interact with it and this is where dap
or decentralized application development
comes into play a Dap is basically an
application that looks and feels like a
regular web or mobile app but instead of
having a single company server at the
back end it uses a blockchain network
for its core operations now to build a
dab you have to learn a front and
framework for building user interfaces
we have a few tools here like react
angular and view but react is the most
popular tool for building user
interfaces now to learn react you need
to learn JavaScript and ideally
typescript which is a super cell of
JavaScript that is widely used in react
projects these days you can learn the
essence of JavaScript and typescript in
about 2 months and then you need another
month or two to learn react also you
should get familiar with web3 libraries
like web3js or ether's JS for connecting
your frontend application to the
blockchain so if you dedicate a few
hours every day and follow this road map
you'll have the necessary knowledge to
apply for an entry-level blockchain
developer job in about 8 to 10 months if
you have any questions please let me
know in the comments and I'll do my best
to answer you right here or in my future
videos if you enjoy this video please
give it a like And subscribe for more
useful content